Docs: revised the push command for openapi-cli (#363)
Redocly/openapi-cli: docs/commands/push.md

# `push`

> ## Overview

Reviewer: This is called _Introduction_ in other commands, right? I would suggest we call it the same here.

Redocly Workflows integrates with [popular version control services](https://redoc.ly/docs/workflows/sources/) and uses them as the source of your API definitions to help you automatically validate, build, and deploy API reference docs and developer portals. This approach requires you to give Redocly Workflows access to your repositories.

> 

Author: Removed this phrase according to the mention left by @skadinna in the `bundle` PR

- Manage versions in the API registry.

Apart from uploading your API definition file, the `push` command can automatically upload other files if they are detected or referenced in the API definition:

- the `.redocly.yaml` configuration file
- the `package.json` file (if it exists) from the folder where you're executing the `push` command. Redocly Workflows will use the `@redocly/openapi-cli` version specified in `package.json`.
- the HTML template and the full contents of the folder specified as the `referenceDocs > htmlTemplate` parameter in `.redocly.yaml`.

:::warning
If a plugin is referenced in the `.redocly.yaml` file, the `push` command will recursively scan the folder containing the plugin and upload all `.js`, `.json`, `.mjs` and `.ts` files.

Make sure that each plugin has all the required files in its folder, otherwise they will not be uploaded.
:::

By default, the `push` command only updates an existing API definition version. If an API with the provided name and version doesn't exist in your organization, it will not be created automatically, and the command will exit with an error exit code.

> 

Reviewer 2: I think there may actually be a bug, because it should also have an exit code if there is an error... and it might not.

https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/exit-codes-demystified#:~:text=When%20you%20execute%20a%20command,from%20your%20command%20or%20script.&text=Programmers%20use%20exit%20codes%20to%20help%20debug%20their%20code.

## Usage

```bash
openapi push <entrypoint> <destination> [branchName]
openapi push [--upsert] <entrypoint> <destination> [branchName]
openapi push 
openapi push [-u] [--run-id id] <path/to/definition.yaml> <@organization-id/api-name@api-version> [branchName]
```

## Options

option           | type      | required?    | default     | description
-----------------|:---------:|:------------:|:-----------:|------------
`entrypoint`     | `string`  | yes          | -           | Path to the API definition filename that you want to push to the Redocly API registry. (See [the section below](#entrypoints) for more options)
`destination`    | `string`  | yes          | -           | Organization id, API name and API version that define the location in the Redocly API registry where to push your API definition.<br />**Format:** `@organization-id/api-name@api-version`. (See [the section below](#destination) for more information)
`branchName`     | `string`  | no           | `main`      | Branch name that will act as a default one for pushing API definitions to
`--help`         | `boolean` | no           | -           | Show help

> `--run-id`       | `string`  | no           | -           | CI job ID that the current push will be associated with. See [the section below](#run-id) for more information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`--run-id`       | `string`  | no           | -           | Specify the ID of the CI job that the current push will be associated with. See [the Run ID section](#run-id) for more information
```

> `--upsert`, `-u` | `boolean` | no           | -           | Create a new API and a new API definition version

Reviewer: Shouldn't this also link to the section with more details? This is an important option because it enables behavior that is not supported by default, and the users will be looking for info how to do it.

`--version`      | `boolean` | no           | -           | Show version number

## Examples

### Entrypoint

> The command behaves differently depending on how you pass an entrypoint to it and whether the [configuration file](#custom-configuration-file) exists. There are the following options:

Reviewer: Could you apply the same principle from [the preview-docs feedback](https://github.com/Redocly/openapi-cli/pull/361#discussion_r702947203) to this section?

#### Pass entrypoint directly

```bash
openapi push openapi/petstore.yaml @openapi-org/petstore-api@v1
```

> In this case, `push` will upload to the Redocly API registry only the definition that was passed to the command. The configuration file is ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, `push` will upload only the definition that was passed to the command. The configuration file is ignored.
```

#### Pass entrypoint via configuration file

> Instead of a full path, you can use an alias assigned in your `apiDefinitions` within your `.redocly.yaml` configuration file as entrypoints. For example, `petstore`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of a full path, you can use an alias assigned in the `apiDefinitions` section within your `.redocly.yaml` configuration file as the entrypoint. For example, `petstore`:
```

```bash request
openapi push petstore @openapi-org/petstore-api@v1
```

```yaml .redocly.yaml
apiDefinitions:
  petstore: ./openapi/petstore.yaml
```

> In this case, after resolving the path behind the `petstore` alias (see the `.redocly.yaml` tab), `push` will upload to the Redocly API registry both the `petstore.yaml` definition file and the `.redocly.yaml` configuration files. The presence of the `.redocly.yaml` configuration file is mandatory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, after resolving the path behind the `petstore` alias (example in the `.redocly.yaml` tab), `push` will upload both the `petstore.yaml` definition file and the `.redocly.yaml` configuration file to the Redocly API registry. For this approach, the `redocly.yaml` configuration file is mandatory.
```

### Destination

To properly push your API definition to the Redocly API registry, you need the following information:

- [Organization ID](#organization-id)
- [API name](#api-name)
- [API version](#api-version)

The format to pass this information is the following: `@organization-id/api-name@api-version`.

#### Organization ID

To find your organization ID required for the command:

1. Log into Workflows.
1. Access the **API registry** page.
1. In your browser's address bar, find the URL of this page.
1. Inspect the segment after `app.redoc.ly/org/`. This part is your organization ID.

For example, if the URL is `app.redoc.ly/org/test_docs`, the organization ID is `test_docs`. When using the `push` command, you would provide this ID as `@test_docs`.

:::warning Note

> The organization ID can differ from the organization name. Owners can change the organization name at any time in the Workflows **Org settings** page, but the organization ID cannot be changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The organization ID can differ from the organization name. Owners can change the organization name at any time in the Workflows **Settings** page, but the organization ID cannot be changed.
```

:::

#### API name

To find your API name required for the command:

1. Log into Workflows.
1. Access the **API registry** page.
1. Check the list of APIs displayed on this page.
1. Inspect the title of each list item to the left of the **New version** and **Edit API** action buttons. This title is an API name.

> When using the `push` command, you would provide API name after the [Organization ID](#organization-id) separated with the forward slash (`/`). For example, `@test_docs/petstore-api`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the `push` command, you would provide the API name after the [Organization ID](#organization-id) separated with the forward slash (`/`). For example, `@test_docs/petstore-api`.
```

> :::info

Reviewer: This is more than just some sidenote info - it's critical information that can prevent the user from completing the action successfully. I suggest we change it to warning or attention.

The name of your API definition should contain only supported characters (`a-z`, `A-Z`, `0-9`, `-`, `.`). Using a restricted character will result in an error, and your API definition will not be created.
:::

#### API version

To find your API version required for the command:

1. Log into Workflows.
1. Access the **API registry** page.
1. Check the list of APIs displayed on this page.

> 1. Inspect the sub-title of each list item to the bottom of the [API name](#api-name). This sub-title is an API version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Inspect the subtitle of each list item to the bottom of the [API name](#api-name). This subtitle is an API version.
```

> When using the `push` command, you would provide API version after the [API name](#api-name) separated with the "at" symbol (`@`). For example, `@test_docs/petstore-api@v1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the `push` command, you would provide the API version after the [API name](#api-name) separated with the "at" symbol (`@`). For example, `@test_docs/petstore-api@v1`.
```

> :::info

Reviewer: Same as above, this should be `warning` or `attention` because it's critical information.

The version of your API definition should contain only supported characters (`a-z`, `A-Z`, `0-9`, `-`, `.`). Using a restricted character will result in an error, and your API definition will not be created.
:::

> ### Run-id

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Run ID
```

> The `--run-id` option can be used by Redocly Workflows to associate multiple pushes with a single CI job. It is auto-populated for the following CI systems so you don't have to pass it separately:

Reviewer: Do you think it would be useful to investigate and mention a couple of use-cases or reasons why a user would want to do something like this?

- Travis CI
- CircleCI
- GitHub Actions

> #### Set up CI from Redocly Workflows

Reviewer: Is there a reason why this section is one level under "Run ID"? It doesn't look like it's directly related to it...I think this might be the wrong place for it on the page. Can we put it at the end? Because it refers to using the command with another tool (Workflows), not with OpenAPI CLI, so it might make sense to keep it separate from the rest.

The Redocly Workflows interface can help you get started with the `push` command.

1. In **API Registry**, select **Add API**.
1. In the **Definition name** step, provide a name for your new API definition.
1. In the **Choose source** step, select **Upload from CI/CD**. This will generate syntax for the `push` command that you can copy and use to upload a new API definition file. Alternatively, use the `openapi push -u` command directly from the command-line interface.

> ### Upsert

Reviewer: suggestion: It might be a good idea to rename this heading to something more descriptive. I'm thinking of something like "Create a new API with `push`". 

Reason: that's what users will search for, how to create a new API with this command. This is our good chance to target that search keyword :) If they're searching before they read this whole page, they won't know the option is called "upsert", so it won't mean anything to them.

To create a new API and a new API definition version with the `push` command, use the `--upsert` or `-u` option:

```bash
openapi push -u test-api-v1.yaml @redocly/test-api@v1 main
```

:::warning

> Before executing the `push` command with the `--upsert` option, ensure that the corresponding organization (that you are supposed to push API definitions to) exists in your Redocly API Registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before executing the `push` command with the `--upsert` option, ensure that the corresponding organization (that you are supposed to push API definitions to) exists in your Redocly API Registry.
```

:::

> ## References

Reviewer: Maybe this would work better if we called it "Learn more" or "See the push command in action".

"References" would be OK if we had mutiple links to pages with more (technical) details about the command, or some specific guides...but we don't.

openapi push 
openapi push [-u] [--run-id id] <path/to/definition.yaml> <@organization-id/api-name@api-version> [branchName]
```

## Options

Option           | Type      | Required?    | Default     | Description
-----------------|:---------:|:------------:|:-----------:|------------
`entrypoint`     | `string`  | yes          | -           | Path to the API definition filename that you want to push to the Redocly API registry. See [the Entrypoints section](#entrypoints) for more options.
`destination`    | `string`  | yes          | -           | Organization id, API name and API version that define the location in the Redocly API registry where to push your API definition.<br />**Format:** `@organization-id/api-name@api-version`. See [the Destination section](#destination) for more information.
`branchName`     | `string`  | no           | `main`      | Set the default branch where API definitions will be pushed
`--help`         | `boolean` | no           | -           | Show help
`--run-id`       | `string`  | no           | -           | Specify the ID of the CI job that the current push will be associated with. See [the Run ID section](#run-id) for more information.

> `--upsert`, `-u` | `boolean` | no           | -           | Upsert an API to the API registry. See [the Create a new API with push section](#create-a-new-api-with-push) for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`--upsert`, `-u` | `boolean` | no           | -           | Upsert an API to the API registry. See [the Upsert an API with push section](#upsert-an-api-with-push) for more information.
```

Make sure that each plugin has all the required files in its folder, otherwise they will not be uploaded.
:::

By default, the `push` command only updates an existing API definition version. If an API with the provided name and version doesn't exist in your organization, it will not be created automatically. Proceed to the [Create a new API with push](#create-a-new-api-with-push) section for more details on how to create an API manually.

:::warning
Note that only API definitions with a CI source can be updated with the `push` command. Attempting to update API definitions created from other sources will fail with an error.
:::

## Prerequisites

Before proceeding with the `push` command, ensure the following prerequisites are met:

1. Active user account in a Redocly Workflows organization.
1. Active [personal API key or organization API key](../../workflows/personal-api-keys.md).

## Authentication

To authenticate to the API registry, you can use several approaches:

- use the [`login` command](login.md). In this case, the command will look as follows:

  ```bash
  openapi login
  opanapi push ...
  ```

  Refer to the [`login` command documentation](login.md) for more details.

> - use the `REDOCLY_AUTHORIZATION` environment variable. It can be set to either your [personal API key](../../workflows/personal-api-keys.md) or to an organization-wide API key (configurable by organization owners in **Redocly Workflows > Settings > API keys**). In this case, the command may look as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- set the `REDOCLY_AUTHORIZATION` environment variable to either your [personal API key](../../workflows/personal-api-keys.md) or to an organization-wide API key (configurable by organization owners in **Redocly Workflows > Settings > API keys**). In this case, the command may look as follows:
```

openapi push 
openapi push [-u] [--run-id id] <path/to/definition.yaml> <@organization-id/api-name@api-version> [branchName]
```

## Options

Option           | Type      | Required?    | Default     | Description
-----------------|:---------:|:------------:|:-----------:|------------
`entrypoint`     | `string`  | yes          | -           | Path to the API definition filename that you want to push to the Redocly API registry. See [the Entrypoints section](#entrypoints) for more options.
`destination`    | `string`  | yes          | -           | Organization id, API name and API version that define the location in the Redocly API registry where to push your API definition.<br />**Format:** `@organization-id/api-name@api-version`. See [the Destination section](#destination) for more information.
`branchName`     | `string`  | no           | `main`      | Set the default branch where API definitions will be pushed
`--help`         | `boolean` | no           | -           | Show help
`--run-id`       | `string`  | no           | -           | Specify the ID of the CI job that the current push will be associated with. See [the Run ID section](#run-id) for more information.

> `--upsert`, `-u` | `boolean` | no           | -           | Create a new API and a new API definition version. See [the Create a new API with push section](#create-a-new-api-with-push) for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`--upsert`, `-u` | `boolean` | no           | -           | Upsert an API to the API registry. See [the Create a new API with push section](#create-a-new-api-with-push) for more information.
```
